# bookmarks
=> now.gmi now
=> blog.gmi blog
=> wiki.gmi wiki
=> recipes.gmi recipes
=> bookmarks.gmi bookmarks
=> contact.gmi contact
=> about.gmi about

## * * * * * * * * * *

=> index.gmi * * back home * *

## the ever-expanding list

Here are some of my favorite websites from around the internet.

They are not sorted in any particular order - sometimes I add several things to this list in a week, and sometimes I don't update it for ages. However, I've found a lot of great sites out there on the web, and I want to list them all here to share them with others - it doesn't seem very fair to hoard them all away in my firefox bookmark manager.

Also, since I have a lot of bookmarks from different online protocols, I'm going to categorize them for easy sort-ability. You'll find everything sorted into http://, gemini:// and .onion categories with their respective links.

### http links

> these are good ol' traditional 'http://' links. You can, of course, access them using any web browser, such as Firefox, Chromium, Safari, etc.

=> https://permacomputing.net permacomputing, an idea based around the idea of resilience in computer hardware, software, and network technologies.
=>https://suckless.org/ suckless, ("software that sucks less") - is a philosophy of building simple, minimal, usable software. It's the home of tools such as dwm, st, dmenu, and more. 
=> https://www.farmersalmanac.com/weather Farmer's Almanac - see calendars, weather expectations, astronomy calendars, tips on gardening, healthy living, recipes, helpful information on pets and farm animals, and more!
=> https://www.weather.gov/ National Weather Service, main site of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).
=> https://radar.weather.gov/region/conus/standard lo-res NWS Radar, a quick-to-load low-resolution radar from the National Weather Service.
=> https://solarnetwork.net/ Solar Network, an open-source platform for building networks, infrastructure, websites, and other web services on servers powered by renewable energies.
=> https://kiosk.nightfall.city/ The Neon Kiosk, a virtual kiosk that collects and shows online journals in a hub for easy reading.
=> https://midnight.pub/ The Midnight Pub, a small site where people can gather and make posts, reply to posts, and have their own personal 'sites'. Posts are available to read on the Web and over Gemini.
=> https://wiby.me/ Wiby, a small, open-source search engine indexing the 'small web' and individual websites.
=> https://news.ycombinator.com/ Hacker News is a social news website run by Y Combinator. Users can submit news stories in the tech space, and discuss the stories with other users. The site is lightweight and quick to load and read, and there are a host of third-party HN clients out there to read if you'd like.
=> https://100r.co 100r, (aka "Hundred Rabbits"), are a small collective exploring minimal and open-source computing aboard a sailboat.
=> https://wiki.xxiivv.com/site/home.html XXIIVV, the site of Devine Lu Linvega from 100r.
=> https://kokorobot.ca/ Kokorobot, the site of Rekka Bell from 100r.
=> https://notebook.zoeblade.com/ Zoe Blade, great blog on hardware, electronic music, operating systems, and autism.
=> https://xeiaso.net/ Xe Iaso, technical talks, *nix stuff, philosophy, and fun bits on Tailscale.
=> https://lukesmith.xyz/ Luke Smith, FOSS technical talks, internet freedom, religion, Monero.
=> https://stallman.org/ Richard Stallman, the founder of GNU. Political notes, notes on free software, random notes.
=> https://val.packett.cool/ Val Packett has contributed to projects such as Wayland, Firefox, FreeBSD, and the web platform.
=> https://kernel.org/ The Linux Kernel Archives, the official website of the Linux kernel.
=> https://distrowatch.com/ DistroWatch, a handy website with information about almost every GNU/Linux distro out there, including news. On the left-hand side of the page, you can also find Linux-related newsletters and podcasts. When browsing the site, remember that the 'rankings' on DistroWatch don't come from any kind of community polling - instead, they are 'ranked' based on the amount of hits their respective listings on the site receive.
=> https://fsf.org/ Free Software Foundation, an organization fighting to get free software in the hands of more people.
=> https://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/ GNU Coreutils page from GNU.org offers help on how to use the GNU coreutils that power so many GNU/Linux distributions and other UNIX-like operating systems. There's a coreutils FAQ, online manuals, a list of 'coreutils gotchas', downloads of the software itself, and more!
=> https://wiki.debian.org/ Debian Wiki, a handy wiki helping you learn what you need to know to use Debian, the "Universal Operating System".
=> https://debian.org/ Debian, the GNU/Linux operating system that I use. The Debian site has a wiki, blogs and news updates, Planet Debian, helpful information about Debian, and more.
=> https://linuxmint.com/ Linux Mint, a user-friendly operating system with editions based on Ubuntu and Debian. One of two distros I recommend to newbies switching over to GNU/Linux everytime.
=> https://ubuntu.com/ Ubuntu, another great GNU/Linux distribution - the one that got me my start on free software over a decade ago now. While I use Debian these days, I am still happy to recommend Ubuntu to people, as it is consistently easy to use and tailored for the desktop.
=> https://nixos.org/ NixOS, a Linux distribution built around the Nix package manager.
=> https://gnu.org/ GNU, the Free Software operating system. This site has notes on GNU and GNU tools, notes on free software, distros, philosophy, and more.
=> https://lwn.net/ LWN, reader-supported site that covers news from within the Linux and free software development communities.
=> https://gnome.org/ GNOME, a modern and elegant desktop environment for Linux distributions. GNOME is quite minimal by default, and is quite extensible with loads of community and official extensions to choose from to make it your very own! GNOME sets itself apart from other desktop environments by doing something a little different - it has a very unique workflow that sets itself apart from desktops that follow the more "traditional" workflow. GNOME has a set of helpful core apps, and plenty more from GNOME Circle, which is a family of apps and libraries that extend the GNOME ecosystem. Give it a shot!
=> https://linmob.net/ LinMob, short for "(Lin)ux on (Mob)ile", is a great site in the same niche as FOSSphones, sharing information and news going on in the mobile Linux space. LinMob has weekly updates with new things going on in the world of mobile Linux, shares helpful videos, and also maintains LinuxPhoneApps, which is also mentioned in the next list item.
=> https://linuxphoneapps.org/ LinuxPhoneApps, a helpful resource from the maintainer of LinMob, is a directory for information on apps for Linux Phones such as the PinePhone and Librem 5. It displays apps and games for your Linux phone, and also has a blog you can follow if you wish!
=> https://distro.tube/ DistroTube, a video series reviewing Linux distributions, covering desktop environments and window managers, software projects, and more.
=> https://j3s.sh/ j3s.sh, notes on software development, poetry, travel, minimalism, and more.
=> https://sapiensanonym.blogspot.com/ Sapiens Anonym, Lepht Anonym's blog about biohacking projects, subdermal electronics, and other experiments.
=> https://templeos.org/ TempleOS, the original site of the public domain operating system by Terry A. Davis.
=> https://templeos.info/ TempleOS Documentation, a handy site for documentation and source files from TempleOS. 
=> https://dangerousthings.com/ Dangerous Things, an online resource and web shop for learning about biohacking and picking up gear. This is where I bought my first chip back in 2016 - the xNT!
=> https://awesomekling.github.io/ Andreas Kling, a blog from the developer of serenityOS, ladybird, and other exciting FOSS projects.
=> https://geohot.github.io/blog/ the singularity is nearer, a blog from George Hotz about technology, AI, and more.
=> https://comma.ai/ comma.ai is a hardware platform for running openpilot, an open-source and advanced semi-autonomous driver-assistance system.
=> https://www.osnews.com/ OSnews, an online newspaper talking about news in the operating system and technologies space.
=> https://wiki.osdev.org/Expanded_Main_Page OSdev, a comprehensive wiki with loads of helpful information about building operating systems.
=> https://softwarepagan.bearblog.dev/ The Software Pagan's Barrow, exploring spiritualism, free software, technology, linguistics, modernity, and more.
=> https://reignofrain.ing/ Reign of Rain, home of Rain, who streams Luanti (probably my favorite FOSS game) and other games, makes great art, and she also has a nice webshop.
=> https://ritualdust.com/ Ritual Dust, featuring notes on experimental music, vegan food, folklore, and more.
=> https://phonelosers.com/ Phone Losers of America, a group I've kept up with since the early 2000s that makes hilarious prank phone calls. Cactus cactus!
=> https://goodnewsnetwork.org/ Good News Network, a news website dedicated to sharing only positive and uplifting news stories.
=> https://grimgrains.com/site/home.html GrimGrains, a site by 100r dedicated to sharing healthy vegan recipes.
=> https://based.cooking/ Based Cooking, a minimal cooking website with community-submitted recipes sorted by category.
=> https://hot-thai-kitchen.com/ Hot Thai Kitchen, run by Pailin Chongchitnant, is a recipe and video series centering around Thai food.
=> http://68k.news/ 68k News, a minimal and basic HTML news site for reading breaking news stories from around the world.
=> https://codeberg.org/ Codeberg, an open-source git forge, comfortable alternative to GitHub.
=> https://sr.ht/ sourcehut, another open-source git forge.
=> http://www.i-mockery.com/ i-mockery, a hilarious site from back in the day featuring community-contributed shorts, editorials, blogs, games, and more.
=> https://ente.io/ Ente makes a great private alternative to Google Photos. Using Ente Photos, you can back up your photos with ease and view them from any device, just like you can with Google Photos. Ente also makes Ente Auth, a great way to handle your 2FA!
=> https://activitypub.rocks/ ActivityPub, learn about the open protocol that powers the fediverse, AcitivityPub! ActivityPub sits at the heart of all of our favorite fediverse platforms - Mastodon, Pleroma, Misskey, PeerTube, Lemmy - each of these federate with each other through the ActivityPub protocol!
=> https://nostr.com/ Nostr, an open-source social protocol - use this site to learn about the Nostr protocol, different clients, relays, and more.
=> https://ctrl-c.club/~singletona082/zine/ Ctrl-C Zine, a webzine by the Ctrl-C community celebrating small-web hacker culture.
=> https://googleprojectzero.blogspot.com/ Project Zero, a security research project within Google that does deep dives and breakdowns into various kinds of exploits.
=> https://slashdot.org/ slashdot, a tech news and discussion site - officially now the oldest of its kind still running on the web (it originally started in October of 1997)! I read the open-source feed quite a bit.
=> https://revolt.chat/ Revolt is an open-source Discord alternative, bringing some of the best features of Discord into the free software world. You can make a server, join live call rooms (audio only for now), do the usual text-based communication in different channels, and more! I definitely recommend checking out Revolt if you want a nice, easy-to-use, free software alternative to something like Discord.
=> https://lemm.ee/ lemm.ee, a general-purpose Lemmy instance. If you haven't heard of it before, Lemmy is a "link aggregator for the fediverse", bringing a reddit-style experience to the fediverse and allowing people to join communities, make and reply to posts, host a lemmy instance of their own, and more.
=> https://nyan.click/ Nyan's Corner, programming, GNU/Linux, anime, urbanism, gaming, and privacy.
=> https://socialweb.network/ SocialWeb Network, a quick primer on some of the open, decentralized social protocols and how to begin working with them.
=> https://indieweb.org/ IndieWeb, or a "people-focused alternative to the corporate web", is a community of personal, independent sites largely focused on the concept of owning a domain and using it as your primary identity on the web.
=> https://vickiboykis.com/ Vicki Boykis, writings on machine learning.
=> https://cyuucat.moe/ Cyuucat, thoughts about Linux, the internet, digital privacy, and more.
=> https://blog.brixit.nl/ BrixIT, a blog by Martijn Braam featuring his thoughts on developing software for mobile Linux, building Linux distributions, hardware, and more.
=> https://spiritforestbear.com/about-spirit-forest/ Spirit Forest, a website and video series on backpacking, survivalism, living off-grid, outdoor life, and more.
=> https://proton.me/ Proton, a collection of services that offer a private alternative to the Google Workspace suite of apps. These include ProtonMail, Proton Drive, Proton Calendar, Proton Docs, and ProtonVPN.
=> https://file.pizza/ FilePizza, simple p2p file transfers in your web browser.
=> https://wormhole.app/ Wormhole, an end-to-end encrypted file transfer service, allowing you to easily share files of up to 10GB in size to other folks, using links that automatically expire around parameters you can set (for example, after the file is downloaded X amount of times or after X amount of hours).
=> https://freedesktop.org/wiki freedesktop, a community of projects working to advance the interoperability and shared tech for FOSS desktop systems.
=> https://opensource.org/ Open Source Initiative is the steward of the Open Source Definition, building and educating on open-source, and setting the foundation for the open-source ecosystem.
=> https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/ MDN Web Docs, the Mozilla Developer Network has a huge library of information about open web technologies, including HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and more.
=> https://gtk.org/ GTK, or the "GIMP Toolkit", is a UI framework for building applications. Several desktop environments on GNU/Linux distros use GTK by default, including the popular GNOME, Cinnamon, Budgie, MATE, and Xfce desktop environments. GTK has bindings for languages including C, Python, Javascript, Perl, Rust, and Vala, allowing you to write your software in a language you're most comfortable in. Popular apps written using GTK include Rhythmbox, GNOME Calendar, Pluma, Nemo, Filezilla, and more.
=> https://wxwidgets.org/ wxWidgets is another GUI framework for building software applications. wxWidgets is cross-platform, allowing you to build apps for Linux, Mac, and Windows using a single codebase and a native look-and-feel. Also, like GTK, wxWidgets has bindings for different languages, allowing you to work with what you're comfortable with. A few examples here include wxPython and wxRuby.
=> https://ecosia.org/ Ecosia is a search engine that uses renewable energy to power its searches, and spends its income on planting trees around the world in places trees are needed.
=> https://windy.com/ Windy, a great weather application on the web for seeing live radar, lightning strikes, wind speeds, sunrise and sunset times, and more.
=> https://bandcamp.com/ bandcamp is a cool platform and purchasing music directly from your favorite artists, DRM-free. Once you make the purchase, you can download it to as many devices as you want, forever, and you can also stream the songs and records online from your bandcamp account!
=> https://geminiprotocol.net/ Gemini Project explains a bit about the minimal internet protocol, Gemini, some documentation and Gemini-related software, and more.
=> https://packages.debian.org/ Debian Packages website, an easy way to search the Debian repositories from anywhere.
=> https://packages.ubuntu.com/ Ubuntu Packages website, an easy way to search the Ubuntu package repositories from your favorite web browser.
=> https://search.nixos.org/packages Nix Packages website, an easy way to search Nix packages from your web browser.
=> https://www.torproject.org/ The Tor Project, a non-profit group building online anonymity software.
=> https://tails.net/ TAILS, or "The Amnesiac Incognito Live System", is a GNU/Linux distro built on Debian and meant to be ran on a live flash drive, allowing you to anonymously use any computer you'd like. What you do on TAILS goes through the Tor network, enabling you to do your computing without the worry of being watched.
=> https://getpocket.com/ Pocket, a service from Mozilla that lets you save stuff you find around the internet and read it later on whatever device you'd like. It's built into firefox, and also has extensions for Chromium browsers, and a mobile app so you can access those articles on-the-go.
=> https://www.gutenberg.org/ Project Gutenberg, a library of 70,000+ free eBooks with no DRM.
=> https://www.atlasobscura.com/ Atlas Obscura, a guide to the world's hidden wonders.
=> https://learnxinyminutes.com/ Learn X in Y, a simple website that does deep dives into a litany of different programming languages.
=> https://www.shortwave.be/ Shortwave.be, helpful information about shortwave radio broadcast stations and other things related to shortwave radio.
=> https://matrix.org/ Matrix, a decentralized messaging protocol, allows you to communicate with anyone you'd like, using a variety of Matrix clients (Element being the most popular) with apps supporting all major desktop and mobile operating systems, as well as web-based clients. Matrix supports 1-to-1 chats, group chats (using Rooms and Spaces), audio chats, and even video chats. Rooms can be encrypted so that nobody but the ones talking can see their contents.
=> https://odysee.com/ Odysee is a video-sharing platform built on the LBRY blockchain. The platform focuses on decentralization and free speech, and users are able to share, upload, livestream, and monetize their content using the platform's inbuilt cryptocurrency.
=> https://www.ganjingworld.com/ Gan Jing World, a video-sharing platform built around the idea of family-friendliness.
=> https://futo.org/ FUTO, an organization dedicated to building software that the user can control. They fund important organizations such as the Tor Project, Ladybird, Signal, Repair Preservation Group, and more. The organization has also been building impressive, open software such as Grayjay, FUTO Keyboard, Immich, Fcast, and more.
=> https://sourcefirst.com/ Source First, a newer take on open licensing from FUTO, which is linked in the item above. The "Source First" licensing style aims to bridge the gap between open code that users can modify and redistribute at will, and ensuring megacorps pay their fair share for the software they use in their own projects. While I always tend to license my software under the GPL family of licenses, I am always glad to see people thinking about new ways to approach these things.
=> https://opensource.org/licenses OSI-Approved Licenses is a handy webpage from the Open Source Initiative which helpfully shows you a list of licenses that comply with the Open Source Definition. You can go through each of these licenses and read their text, giving you all the information you need for choosing a license for your own open-source project.
=> https://nextcloud.com/ Nextcloud allows you to host your own cloud, storing your files, photos, videos, music, whatever you'd like on your own personal cloud built on open-source software. Nextcloud is easy to host on your own machines or cloud server, and has handy desktop and mobile applications so you can sync back and forth between all your devices.
=> https://luanti.org/ Luanti is an open-source voxel game engine, very similar to Minecraft. It has a ton of games and mods built on top of it, and these are written in Lua. You may have heard of Luanti before, under its old name, Minetest. It's definitely one of my favorites! My wife and I stream it quite a bit.
=> https://content.luanti.org/ Luanti ContentDB, the hub to learn about and grab all kinds of mods, games, and texture packs for Luanti.
=> http://www.gamezero.com/team-0/articles/math_magic/micro/processor.html The Math Behind the Magic, a useful introduction to the microprocessor.
=> http://www.collectspace.com/news/ collectspace, a hub for outer space news and resources.
=> https://www.datagubbe.se/cosy/ cozy computing, a nice write-up on the soulful, "cozy" qualities of home computers.
=> https://disroot.org/ Disroot, a FOSS platform offering privacy-respecting services such as email, Nextcloud, XMPP, pastebin, search engine, Jitsi video conferencing, git hosting, mumble server, cryptpad, and more.
=> https://hostux.net/ Hostux, a service similar to Disroot, offering FOSS services such as Peertube, IRC, disposable inboxes, cryptpad, freshRSS, and more.
=> https://atproto.com/guides/overview ATproto Overview - a helpful overview of the Authenticated Transfer Protocol, also known as atproto, the open protocol which powers Bluesky and the apps that are developing in the Bluesky ecosystem.
=> https://pinksky.app/ Pinksky, a photo-sharing, Instagram-like app built on top of Bluesky's ATproto.
=> https://firesky.tv/ Firesky, the Bluesky firehose in realtime.
=> https://pinksea.art/PinkSea, an oekaki BBS built on top of Bluesky's ATproto.
=> https://fediversereport.com/ Fediverse Report, a site sharing news about developments on the Fediverse.
=> https://bukmark.club/ Bukmark Club, a collection of personal websites from around the internet.
=> https://annas-archive.org/ Anna's Archive, an open-source platform that aims to be the 'largest truly open library in human history'. The site mirrors SciHub and LibGen, and also scrapes and open-sources Z-Lib, DuXiu, and more.
=> https://beta.the-eye.eu/ The Eye, an open archive of all kinds of data.
=> https://warmplace.ru/ WarmPlace, hosting a collection of great audio-focused software such as Sunvox (the audio software I use to write my music), Pixilang, and more.
=> https://softwarefoundations.cis.upenn.edu/ Software Foundations is "an introduction to the mathematical underpinnings of reliable software."
=> http://www.arrl.org/home ARRL, The National Association for Amateur Radio.
=> https://www.spaceweather.com/ SpaceWeather, current solar conditions such as solar wind and flares, aurora alerts, information on sunspots, and other stuff.
=> https://zoom.earth/ Zoom Earth, a fantastic website useful for viewing live satellite imagery, use interactive weather maps, explore different layers of weather data, and more. I use it quite frequently.
=> https://willyweather.com/ Willy Weather, a helpful weather site that shows you realtime weather conditions for your local area, including forecast, radar, monthly precipitation totals, realtime extremes, and more.
=> https://radio.garden/ Radio Garden, a very cool website where you can listen to radio stations from all around the world. Just pick a spot on the globe, and away you go!
=> https://tv.garden/ TV Garden - similar to Radio Garden mentioned in the link above, but for TV! You can select a country, and watch TV channels from that country. Easy-peasy!
=> https://duelingnexus.com/ Dueling Nexus, a website where you can build Yu-Gi-Oh! decks and play them against other people online. You can also practice against bots, if you'd like.
=> https://www.serebii.net/ Serebii is a community-run Pokemon hub/wiki with information for every generation of Pokemon, each game, each region, the TV series, and more. Definitely good reading material for Pokemon fans, or to use as a reference when playing through one of the games!
=> https://doomwiki.org/Doom Wiki is your home to learn everything about the Doom franchise. Whether you've been playing the games for years and want to brush up on your lore, or you're just now getting into the Doom series, there is loads of helpful information here.
=> https://zeldawiki.wiki/ Zelda Wiki, a comprehensive, community-run site with every piece of lore you need about the Zelda games. Forgot where your favorite game is on the Zelda timeline, or trying to remember the name of that awesome boss from your favorite series entry? Whatever piece of info you need can be found here!
=> https://pcpartpicker.com/ PC Part Picker, a helpful site where you can plan out custom computer builds, and compare different parts and their prices across different sales platforms.
=> https://securityinabox.org/en/ Security in a Box, lots of great information on computer and mobile device security, security software and tools, and more.

### ~ Gemini links

> These are 'gemini://' links, so you'll need a Gemini browser to access them! I recommend amfora (CLI), Lagrange (GUI), or Geopard (GUI) for great options.

=> gemini://kennedy.gemi.dev Kennedy Search, a search engine for Gemini.
=> gemini://warmedal.se/~antenna/ Antenna is a Gemini feed aggregator.
=> gemini://geminiprotocol.net Project Gemini, the home-base of the Gemini project, allowing you to read all about it and get up to speed with how it works if you're new to it.
=> gemini://kennedy.gemi.dev/observatory/known-hostsKnown Gemini Capsules is a list of currently-known Gemini capsules up and running. If you feel like discovering some new Gemini capsules, checking out this list is a fun way to get started!
=> gemini://fossphones.com FOSSphones mirrored on Gemini - read the Linux Phone News from Geminispace! 
=> gemini://midnight.pub Midnight Pub, mirrored on Gemini!
=> gemini://station.martinrue.com Station, a micro-blogging Gemini capsule, "where capsuleers hang out"!
=> gemini://chat.mozz.us/ Gemini Chat, a live chatroom implemented over Gemini.

### ~ Onion links

> These are '.onion' links, so you'll need the Tor Browser in order to access them!

=> http://dreadytofatroptsdj6io7l3xptbet6onoyno2yv7jicoxknyazubrad.onion/ Dread is a reddit-style discussion forum.
=> http://shootnnngg4akh7fkjmx5b5omsppt2zaefohzwnwryhy2c6mm3kbx6qd.onion/ Shoot is a search engine for onion sites.
=> https://protonmailrmez3lotccipshtkleegetolb73fuirgj7r4o4vfu7ozyd.onion/ ProtonMail, ProtonMail over Tor.
=> http://vww6ybal4bd7szmgncyruucpgfkqahzddi37ktceo3ah7ngmcopnpyyd.onion/ Rise Up provides email services over Tor.
=> https://duckduckgogg42xjoc72x3sjasowoarfbgcmvfimaftt6twagswzczad.onion/ DuckDuckGo, the well-known privacy-focused search engine served over Tor.
=> http://piratebayo3klnzokct3wt5yyxb2vpebbuyjl7m623iaxmqhsd52coid.onion/ The Pirate Bay - a well-known filesharing service.
=> http://zkaan2xfbuxia2wpf7ofnkbz6r5zdbbvxbunvp5g2iebopbfc4iqmbad.onion/ OpenPGP keyserver served over Tor.

## = = = = = = = = = =

=> gemini://rav3ndust.xyz rav3ndust.xyz
=> https://neighborli.xyz/@rav3ndust fediverse
=> https://nosta.me/rav3ndust@rav3ndust.xyz nostr
=> https://bsky.app/profile/rav3ndust.xyz bluesky
=> https://github.com/rav3ndust/r3xyz-gemini source code to this capsule
=> https://opensource.org/license/mit source code: MIT License
=> https://creativecommons.org/public-domain/cc0/ capsule content: CC0 License

