# digital garden
=> ../now.gmi now
=> ../blog.gmi blog
=> wiki.gmi wiki
=> ../recipes.gmi recipes
=> ../bookmarks.gmi bookmarks
=> ../contact.gmi contact
=> ../about.gmi about

## * * * * * * * * * *

=> ../index.gmi * * back home * *

## arkane
### solo musical project started in 2012, still active

Arkane is my solo electronic music project. I started it sometime in the autumn of 2012 in Tulsa, OK, because I never had any luck playing in bands. I figured doing solo stuff would be a lot easier.

I did a few different albums as Arkane, and am planning on finally finishing up lov3, which has slowly been in the works since 2017-ish.

### discography

* Subwolf - 2012
* Transparency - 2012
* Ethereal Transience - 2013
* Unity - 2015
* The Darkness - 2015
* lov3 - TBA

Between 2012 and 2017, Arkane played several live shows around the Tulsa and Broken Arrow, Oklahoma areas. Some venues include Venue Shrine, Steamwerks Hookah Lounge, Tommy's Bar, and Midknight Lounge.

### notes

~ Unity was a ton of fun to record. Aside from one song ("20percent"), every other song featured a friend with a different musical talent on the track.

~ The Arkane project has featured a lot of different sounds, from ambient music, to dubstep, to electro-rock, house, orchestral, and more. I have always enjoyed exploring different musical genres and experimenting with new sounds.

~ I hate playing favorites with projects of any kind, but when it comes to the Arkane stuff, I still have a bit of a soft spot for Ethereal Transience. It is mostly a chill, ambient-influenced album with downtempto songs.

~ After my old project split up and I moved, I fell out of making music under the Arkane project for a bit (as I started doing new tunes under the x3nyth name), and some demos from lov3 sat dormant for a few years. However, I have recently gotten a renewed interest in making tunes under the Arkane moniker again, so I will probably finally be finishing that one soon.

### links

=> https://soundcloud.com/avalon69 arkane on soundcloud
=> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pavCqyhCKBo&pp=ygUeYXJrYW5lIGxpdmUgYXQgbWlka25pZ2h0IGx1bmdl arkane live at midknight lounge

## * * * * * * * * * *

=> gemini://rav3ndust.xyz rav3ndust.xyz
=> https://neighborli.xyz/@rav3ndust fediverse
=> https://nosta.me/rav3ndust@rav3ndust.xyz nostr
=> https://bsky.app/profile/rav3ndust.xyz bluesky
=> https://github.com/rav3ndust/r3xyz-gemini source code to this capsule
=> https://opensource.org/license/mit source code: MIT License
=> https://creativecommons.org/public-domain/cc0/ capsule content: CC0 License

