# digital garden
=> ../now.gmi now
=> ../blog.gmi blog
=> wiki.gmi wiki
=> ../recipes.gmi recipes
=> ../bookmarks.gmi bookmarks
=> ../contact.gmi contact
=> ../about.gmi about

## * * * * * * * * * *

=> ../index.gmi * * back home * *

## x3nyth
### experimental project started in 2017

x3nyth is a project I started in 2017 after the split of another project. I was getting a little tired at the time of doing the more traditional "EDM" style, and I wanted to move in a more experimental direction.

The x3nyth project came from this idea, and I began making some experimental stuff using Sunvox as my music software of choice (still using it!). I have slowly been shaping the resulting material into what will be the first real x3nyth album. One of the things I enjoy doing the most is generative-style music and ambient.

x3nyth is writing the original soundtrack for Dark Nights Rising, as well, a game put together by Raven's Ridge.

> Note that you can now listen to x3nyth songs on the relevant album pages in the Wiki! (https version of this site)
> If you feel like supporting the x3nyth project, you can also purchase my records on my bandcamp and download it in your audio format of choice.

### discography

* autosynchronicity - 22 May 2025
* Dark Nights Rising - TBA

For the last few years, I've been writing that first record, called autosynchronicity. It's mostly been making a bunch of music, sorting through it and finding things that I think fit the particular theme well. I look forward to having it assembled into a full record.

### notes

x3nyth has never played a live show, but I wouldn't mind changing that sometime with some live-editing or generative sets. I also like the idea of manipulating Sunvox through Orca, which I am going to be experimenting with further soon.

I have also thought about streaming live music sets online (twitch/youtube) for the x3nyth project. This is something I might try to make a regular thing on my channels.

The main goal of x3nyth is always to write more experimental music, things that make me think of stuff like Aphex Twin, Boards of Canada, and some other acts I grew up with that were outside of the mainstream. The x3nyth project so far has yielded some interesting "industrial" sounding tracks, some ambient stuff, generative music, and some freeform-melodic stuff that was put together live.

I intend to keep exploring that side of my musical influences, so I see myself making things under the x3nyth name for quite awhile to come.

### relevant links

=> https://rav3ndust.xyz/tunes.gmi x3nyth on rav3ndust.xyz
=> https://x3nyth.bandcamp.com x3nyth on bandcamp

## * * * * * * * * * *

=> gemini://rav3ndust.xyz rav3ndust.xyz
=> https://neighborli.xyz/@rav3ndust fediverse
=> https://nosta.me/rav3ndust@rav3ndust.xyz nostr
=> https://bsky.app/profile/rav3ndust.xyz bluesky
=> https://github.com/rav3ndust/r3xyz-gemini source code to this capsule
=> https://opensource.org/license/mit source code: MIT License
=> https://creativecommons.org/public-domain/cc0/ capsule content: CC0 License

